You might already know that a majority of Canada's population is located pretty close to the US border, but you might not realize just how close they actually are. This right here is the 49th parallel, the 2000 kilometer line that takes up a large portion of the US Canada border. And believe it or not, more than 70% of Canadians live below this line. However, we can push it even further, but whopping 50% of all Canadians live south of this line, which is entirely below states like North Dakota and Washington. You might already know that a majority of Canada's population is located pretty close to the US border, but you might not realize just how close they actually are. This right here is the 49th parallel, the 2000 kilometer line that takes up a large portion of the US Canada border. And believe it or not, more than 70% of Canadians live below this line. However, we can push it even further, but whopping 50% of all Canadians live south of this line, which is entirely below states like North Dakota and Washington. This has to do with the fact that a majority of Canada falls under what is called the Canadian Shield, a plateau of rocks which essentially makes farming impossible in these regions. On the other hand, the Great Lakes are a huge source of valuable freshwater, which gives this area the best farmland in all of Canada. Because of its desired living conditions, many major Canadian cities are located in this region, such as Toronto, Ottawa, and Montreal. Anyways, this video took forever to edit, so make sure to hit that red button. This has to do with the fact that a majority of Canada falls under what is called the Canadian Shield, a plateau of rocks which essentially makes farming impossible in these regions. On the other hand, the Great Lakes are a huge source of valuable freshwater, which gives this area the best farmland in all of Canada. Because of its desired living conditions, many major Canadian cities are located in this region, such as Toronto, Ottawa, and Montreal. Anyways, this video took forever to edit, so make sure to hit that red button.